# [When is long term planning needed?](#when-is-long-term-planning-needed)

I often dive into things head first. I like to fix problems, code as quickly as possible while I'm still hype, I hate waiting. I really _really_ hate waiting. Because it's like spending my working time doing nothing. Then when it's time to do something I'm already tired and/or bored.

So I tend to do things one bit at the time.

When I started working on my text editor [freja](https://github.com/saikyun/freja), I didn't sketch out `freja-frp`, `freja-layout` and `textarea`. I just started with the goal of "implement all interactions that are in the Chrome implementation of `<textarea></textarea>`".

This turned out to be a great goal. It's very clear what should be there. Everything in the Chrome textarea. And it's very clear what should not be there. Everything that's not in the Chrome textarea.

Another helpful part was that I constantly communicated my progress with a close friend. So even on non-productive days I could complain about the problems I faced. I can't remember if he did, but I'm sure he brought up interactions I didn't think about at first, like triple clicking or certain funny word wrapping aspects.

After two months or so, I was at [this stage (youtube, 1min)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ReUczDAWLfI). At that point I even managed to get some extra stuff in, like syntax highlighting. And a little easter egg for those with a watchful eye. :)

Still, after those two months, I still didn't know what was ahead of me. I had just worked merrily in a way that suited me. I had this vague sense of what an ideal text editor should be, but I didn't say that I must plan everything out ahead.

Then, about a year later, working in a similar way, with smaller problems to solve each week, I released what I call the notepad-complete version of Freja. You could essentially do everything you can in notepad, and then some (live coding in the editor!).

I believe I would never have gone this far if I had tried to plan this process ahead. And this is for a whole text editor. I wonder how many ideas are snuffed out before getting the chance to burn brightly, because of inaction.

_#100DaysToOffload - Please say hi on [mastodon.social/@saikyun](https://mastodon.social/@saikyun). :)_