# [<untitled>](#untitled)

I just don't know what to write about.

My mind is kind of spinning, due to lack of sleep and things.

Right now I'm waiting in the smell of stone grilled bread for my gluten free pizza and my wife's vegetarian avocado salad to be made by the men behind the counter.

I'm trying gluten free food at the moment, and for the last two weeks or so. I can't remember if I wrote this already, but if I forgot it, I'm sure you did as well.

The first inkling that I might have some problem with gluten was the way I felt after eating Max's plant beef burger, which I'm pretty sure is made with wheat. After eating one of those bad boy's I was knocked out for an hour or three.

It has felt very inconsistent though, like I didn't feel affected when eating bread or pizza etc.

But after one tired day too many, I figured I need to try something. I can't remember exactly what made me try gluten free, but I think one part of it was vaguely remembering my mom saying felt she felt much better when not eating bread and stuff.

So I just tried it.

The main difference in my life has been going from 4+ sandwiches per day to 0. I've had to cook more stuff for breakfast, like eggs and pancakes using almond flour.

It was kind of funny, I had no real clue what almond flour was. I thought it was some strange stuff made in a lab for gluten allergic people.

But then I read the back.

It's made out of almonds.

_#100DaysToOffload - Please say hi on [mastodon.social/@saikyun](https://mastodon.social/@saikyun). :)_